related to northwind db
part 1

1. Basic Select
Retrieve all the unique product names from the Products table.

2. Select with Condition
Which employees are from the city of "Seattle"?

3. Basic Sort
List all the customers in the Customers table, ordered by CompanyName in ascending order.

4. Sort Multiple Columns
List all the orders in the Orders table, sorted by OrderDate in descending order and then by OrderID in ascending order.

5. Aliases
In the Products table, show ProductName as Item Name and UnitPrice as Price.

6. Join with Aliases
Retrieve the ProductName (as Item) and CategoryName (as Category Type) from the Products table joined with the Categories table.

7. Aggregate Functions with Aliases
What is the total number of products in the Products table? Display the result with the column name Total Products.

8. Conditional Select with Sort
From the Orders table, list the OrderID and OrderDate of orders placed in the year 1997, sorted by OrderDate in ascending order.

9. String Functions with Aliases
Extract the first 5 characters of each ProductName from the Products table and display it as Short Name.

10. Complex Join with Aliases and Sort
Join the Order Details table with the Products table to list all the ProductNames (as Items Ordered) and their Quantity, sorted by Quantity in descending order.

part 2


1. How many orders does each customer have? (Use JOIN)

2. List all the employees and their corresponding managers.

3. Which suppliers provide seafood products? (List the supplier name and product name)

4. Retrieve the list of orders that don't have corresponding order details.

5. Which customers have never placed an order?

6. List all products, and their category names, that have been discontinued.

7. Find all the customers from France who have placed orders. List their company names and contact names.

8. List the highest-priced product from each category.

9. How many products does each supplier provide? (Use JOIN)

10. Which orders contain the product 'Chai'?

11. Find all products that have never been ordered.

12. Who are the employees that report to 'Andrew Fuller'?

13. Which categories have the most products? (Top 5)

14. Find all employees who don't have subordinates.

15. Which employees have processed orders for the 'Chocolade' product?

16. How many orders were shipped by 'Speedy Express'?

17. List all customers and their total order amounts, ordering the list by the highest total order amount first.

18. Which suppliers have products with a unit price greater than 40?

19. List the employees and the number of orders they have processed in the year 1997.

20. Find all orders that were placed by customers from the USA and shipped by 'Federal Shipping'.

part 3
1. Using the ROUND() function, find the average price of all products rounded to the nearest whole number.

2. Using the CEIL() function, find the highest order quantity and round it up to the next whole number.

3. Retrieve the sum of all order quantities from the Order Details table.

4. How many products have a unit price greater than the average unit price? Use the AVG() function in your query.

5. Find the difference in days between the earliest and latest OrderDate from the Orders table using the DATEDIFF() function.

6. List all products that have the word "cheese" anywhere in their product name using the LIKE operator.

7. Extract the month from the OrderDate column for all orders placed in 1997. Use the MONTH() function.

8. Using the CONCAT() function, combine the FirstName and LastName columns in the Employees table to display the full name of each employee.

9. Retrieve all orders placed in the second quarter (April, May, June) of any year. Use the MONTH() function in combination with the BETWEEN operator.

10. For the Products table, list the products with a unit price that has a decimal value greater than 0.5.

11. Find the employees who started working in the company on a Monday. Use the DAYOFWEEK() function.

12. Use the UPPER() function to convert all customer company names to uppercase and list them.

13. Find all customers whose contact name starts with the letters A-M using the LEFT() function combined with the WHERE clause.

14. Calculate the total number of years of employment across all employees up to today. Use the SUM() and YEAR() functions with the DATEDIFF() function.

15. Retrieve all products where the length of the product name is more than 10 characters. Use the LENGTH() or CHAR_LENGTH() function.

16. Find out how many days are left in the current year from today. Use the CURDATE(), LAST_DAY(), and DATEDIFF() functions.

17. List all orders where the ship name contains the same first three letters as the ship country using the SUBSTRING() function.

18. Using the MOD() function, find all products whose product ID is odd.

19. Calculate the age of each employee in years based on their BirthDate. Use the TIMESTAMPDIFF() function.

20. Find all customers who registered in the last 15 days of any month. Use the DAY() function combined with the WHERE clause.

part 4
1.Managers and Subordinates: List all the employees along with their respective managers.
2.Employee Regions: Which regions have more than 2 employees?
3.Order Processors: Which employees have not processed any orders?
4.Employee Hierarchy: Who reports directly to 'Janet Leverling'?
5.Senior Employees: List all employees who don't have a manager.


pat 5

1.How many orders has each customer placed?
2.What is the total quantity of each product sold?
3How many orders were placed in each year?
4What's the average, minimum, and maximum order quantity per product?
5Which countries have the highest number of customers?
6How many products are there in each category?
7Which employees have processed the highest number of orders?
8Which shippers have delivered the most number of orders?
I9n which month did we get the highest number of orders?
10How many suppliers are there for each product category?
11What is the total revenue for each product?
12How many products have been discontinued by category?
13Which employees have the highest average order value?
14How many employees are there in each office location?
15What's the total order value for each country?
16How many orders have been placed by payment method (assuming a payment method column)?
17What is the average discount provided per product?
18How many unique customers does each employee serve?
19Which category of products has the most discounts applied?
20How many orders have been shipped each month?


